---
layout: post
title: "DNS, Web Host and Registrar"
---

### DNS – Domain Name System:
DNS is the glue that makes the web work. It translates a name www.google.com to an IP 
address that tells which web server is hosting the website. It also tells other email servers where 
to send email for a domain name using what is called the MX record.

Without DNS, when someone types in www.google.com in a web browser, there is no conversion 
of the name to an IP address and your web browser will return an error. Even through your website 
may be running fine, without DNS the web browser doesn’t know where to go to get to the site.

In the simplest terms, DNS let’s us use names like Yahoo or Google instead of strings of numbers 
like 74.125.224.18  Think of it as telling the Internet to “call Bob” instead of “dial 555-123-4567”.

### Hosting:
Website hosting provides server storage space and an IP address for your website. The website on that
server can then be accessed from a web browser. Your web hosting provider is who gives your website 
the IP address that is entered into DNS. When someone types www.google.com the web browser 
goes to the hosting providers web server to pull up the pages for your website that you have stored on the server.

### Registrars:

Domain registrars register a domain and enable it’s use on the rest of the internet. There is an annual 
recurring cost for this service. The one and only thing this service actually provides is to tell the 
rest of the web which DNS server to use for your domain.

Web hosts provide DNS hosting with web hosting accounts and will usually register domains for you at 
their preferred domain registrar. The upside to having your webhost provide DNS registration is typically 
they will renew the Domain for you each year at the registrar and send a bill with your hosting bill. 
So you will get nice fast reliable hosting, with friendly service, and a convenient all-in-one billing 
for your website and domain name needs.

You also have the option of managing it all yourself, or choosing a combination of options, like the 
webhost only hosting the website and the registrar providing DNS hosting.


